src/papers.md, before:

# Publications

List of academic publications from the project.

## Journal articles

- Arribas-Bel, D. and Fleischmann, M. (2022) ‘Spatial Signatures: Understanding (urban) spaces through form and function’ Habitat International, 128, (102641). <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.habitatint.2022.102641>
- Fleischmann, M. and Arribas-Bel, D. (2022) ‘Geographical characterisation of British urban form and function using the spatial signatures framework’ Scientific Data, 9, (546). <https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-022-01640-8>
- Samardzhiev, K.; Fleischmann, M.; Arribas-Bel, D.; Calafiore, A.; Rowe, F. (2022). “Functional signatures in Great Britain: A dataset”. Data in Brief, 43. <10.1016/j.dib.2022.108335>
- Singleton, A.; Arribas-Bel, D.; Murray, J.; Fleischmann, M. (2022). “Estimating generalized measures of local neighbourhood context from multispectral satellite images using a convolutional neural network”. Computers, Environment and Urban Systems, 95. <10.1016/j.compenvurbsys.2022.101802>

## Conference proceedings

- Fleischmann, M. and Arribas-Bel, D. (2022) ‘Classifying urban form at national scale : the British morphosignatures’, Annual Conference Proceedings of the XXVIII International Seminar on Urban Form. University of Strathclyde Publishing, Glasgow, pp. 895-905. ISBN 9781914241161. <https://doi.org/10.17868/strath.00080527>

Commit message:

Add blog posts to papers list

src/papers.md, after:

# Publications

List of academic publications from the project.

## Journal articles

- Arribas-Bel, D. and Fleischmann, M. (2022) ‘Spatial Signatures: Understanding (urban) spaces through form and function’ Habitat International, 128, (102641). <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.habitatint.2022.102641> [[Blog post]](blog/post33_habitat.md)
- Fleischmann, M. and Arribas-Bel, D. (2022) ‘Geographical characterisation of British urban form and function using the spatial signatures framework’ Scientific Data, 9, (546). <https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-022-01640-8> [[Blog post]](blog/post34_sd.md)
- Samardzhiev, K.; Fleischmann, M.; Arribas-Bel, D.; Calafiore, A.; Rowe, F. (2022). “Functional signatures in Great Britain: A dataset”. Data in Brief, 43. <10.1016/j.dib.2022.108335> [[Blog post]](blog/post28_dib_paper.md)
- Singleton, A.; Arribas-Bel, D.; Murray, J.; Fleischmann, M. (2022). “Estimating generalized measures of local neighbourhood context from multispectral satellite images using a convolutional neural network”. Computers, Environment and Urban Systems, 95. <10.1016/j.compenvurbsys.2022.101802> [[Blog post]](blog/post25_ceus_paper.md)

## Conference proceedings

- Fleischmann, M. and Arribas-Bel, D. (2022) ‘Classifying urban form at national scale : the British morphosignatures’, Annual Conference Proceedings of the XXVIII International Seminar on Urban Form. University of Strathclyde Publishing, Glasgow, pp. 895-905. ISBN 9781914241161. <https://doi.org/10.17868/strath.00080527> [[Blog post]](blog/post28_proceedings.md)
